= DigitalFormsApi
TODO: Short description and motivation.

== Installation
Ensure the following line is in the root project's Gemfile:

  gem 'digital_forms_api', path: 'modules/digital_forms_api'

== Discovery Status (Not Production-Wired)

The submissions service includes a discovery helper:

  DigitalFormsApi::Service::Submissions#submit_and_resolve_uuid

This method is intended for local/discovery evaluation only right now. It performs:

* submit
* retrieve(submission_id)
* UUID extraction from the retrieved submission payload (when available)

Important:

* This helper is not currently wired into production submission flows.
* Existing +submit+ and +retrieve+ behavior remains unchanged.
* If UUID is not present in the upstream submission payload, +resolved_user_uuid+ will be +nil+.

== Fetching UUID from Submission

If you need to resolve a user UUID from a successful Digital Forms submission,
use +DigitalFormsApi::Service::Submissions#submit_and_resolve_uuid+.

This method:

* submits payload/metadata
* reads +submissionId+ from the submit response
* calls +retrieve(submission_id)+
* extracts UUID candidates from the retrieved payload

Expected return shape:

  {
    submission_id: String | nil,
    claim_id: String | nil,
    participant_id: String | nil,
    resolved_user_uuid: String | nil,
    submit_response: Faraday::Env,
    retrieve_response: Faraday::Env | nil
  }

Example (application usage):

  service = DigitalFormsApi::Service::Submissions.new
  result = service.submit_and_resolve_uuid(payload, metadata, dry_run: true)

  uuid = result[:resolved_user_uuid]
  submission_id = result[:submission_id]

Example (rails console):

  require 'digital_forms_api/service/submissions'

  service = DigitalFormsApi::Service::Submissions.new
  payload = { data: 'TEST' }
  metadata = {
    formId: '21-686c',
    veteranId: '123456789',
    claimantId: '123456789',
    epCode: '130',
    claimLabel: '130DPEBNAJRE'
  }

  result = service.submit_and_resolve_uuid(payload, metadata, dry_run: true)
  result.slice(:submission_id, :claim_id, :participant_id, :resolved_user_uuid)

Troubleshooting:

* +dry_run: true+ still performs network calls.
* DNS/VPN/network issues can fail before a response is returned.
* If +resolved_user_uuid+ is +nil+, upstream payload likely did not include UUID fields.

== Schema Validation

Schema validation utilities are implemented in:

  lib/digital_forms_api/validation/schema.rb

This module validates payloads against form-specific JSON schemas fetched from the
Digital Forms API +schemas/:form_id+ endpoint.

Primary methods:

* +validate_schema_property(form_id, property, value)+
* +validate_upload_payload(form_id, file_name, provider_data)+
* +validate_provider_data(form_id, provider_data)+
* +validate_search_file_request(form_id, results_per_page:, page:, filters:, sort:)+
* +fetch_form_schema(form_id)+

Behavior notes:

* Supports schema response shapes of +{"schema": ...}+ and +{"data" => {"schema" => ...}}+.
* Raises +JSON::Schema::ValidationError+ for invalid payloads or schema parse failures.
* Normalizes pagination inputs via +normalize_integer+ for search requests.
* Tracks schema-related errors via +DigitalFormsApi::Monitor::Service+.

Example usage:

  # Validate upload payload for a form
  payload = DigitalFormsApi::Validation::Schema.validate_upload_payload(
    '21-686c',
    'dependents.pdf',
    { participantId: '600123456', source: 'va.gov' }
  )

  # Validate file search request payload
  request = DigitalFormsApi::Validation::Schema.validate_search_file_request(
    '21-686c',
    results_per_page: 10,
    page: 1,
    filters: { status: 'UPLOADED' },
    sort: [{ field: 'createdAt', order: 'DESC' }]
  )

== License
This module is open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
