The Benefits Claims API allows authenticated individuals (Veterans or their authorized representatives) to digitally submit and automatically establish certain claims, along with supporting documentation. It also allows those users to see information about current claims, including their status.

Internal VA consumers, such as mail processing vendors, can use an organizational token to establish disability compensation claims automatically.

Whereas the [Benefits Intake API](https://developer.va.gov/explore/benefits/docs/benefits?version=current) is primarily for uploading claim-related PDFs to the Centralized Mail Portal, the Benefits Claims API can accept JSON for automatically establishing claims. Automatic establishment helps eligible Veterans receive their benefits more quickly by:

1) reducing processing time by a number of days
2) making claims immediately accessible to Veteran Service Representatives (VSRs) using the Veterans Benefits Management System (VBMS)


Currently, the API supports automatic establishment of:

 - Application for Disability Compensation (21-526EZ)
 - Intent to File (21-0966)
 - Appointment of Representative (21-22 and 21-22a)

 Visit our VA Lighthouse [support portal](https://developer.va.gov/support) for further assistance.

## Technical Summary
The Benefits Claims API accepts a payload consisting of [JSON API compliant](https://jsonapi.org/) requests and responses on a per-form basis. The payload describes the form and identifies the person for whom it is being submitted.

Some forms allow or require supporting documents to be uploaded, encoded as binary multipart/form data.

The API provides a unique identifier with the response payload of most forms. This identifier can then be used to request the processing status of the uploaded document package.

API consumers are encouraged to validate the JSON Schema before submission, according to their description in the form models provided.

## Design

### Authentication
In order to make an API request, individuals must first [authenticate](https://developer.va.gov/explore/health/docs/authorization) via our OAuth SAML Proxy and scoping process. They will then receive the required authentication token to access the API.

If the OAuth token belongs to the **Veteran**, only the token is required to access all data related to that Veteran.

If the token belongs to a **Veteran Representative**, the individual must be [accredited](https://www.va.gov/ogc/apps/accreditation/index.asp) by the organization who holds Power of Attorney (PoA) for the Veteran, or be appointed directly. The API compares the authenticated individual's accreditations or PoA codes with the Office of General Council's database, in order to validate that the Representative's PoA codes match the code for the Veteran's current PoA. When a Representative authenticates, the API also requires the Veteran's SSN, first name, last name, and date of birth.

**Internal** VA users (such as mail processing vendors) authenticate using an API key issued at the organizational level. Currently, this authentication model is only supported in V0. To learn more about this authentication path, select Version 0.0.1 from the drop-down menu above.


#### Additional Resources
*   A guide to [OAuth (OpenID Connect) for VA Lighthouse APIs](https://developer.va.gov/explore/health/docs/authorization)
*   [Sample applications](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api-clients/tree/master/samples) showing this authentication model in use


#### OAuth Scopes for Benefits Claims API
*   `claim.read`
    *   This scope is required for any /claims GET endpoints
*   `claim.write`
    *   This scope is required for any form auto-establishment endpoints


### Attachment & File Size Limits

Uploaded documents cannot be larger than 11" x 11".

A payload of documents cannot exceed 5 GB, and no single file in a payload can exceed 100 MB. There is no limit on the _number_ of files that can be contained in one payload, only the aforementioned size limitations.


### Original Claims and 21-526 PDF Generation
**Original Claim** refers to the first Benefits claim a Veteran has ever filed with VA, regardless of that claim's type or status. VA policy requires that original claims be filed with the Veteran's own signature or electronic authorization, while subsequent claims may be filed with the signature of their power of attorney.  

By default, the API generates PDFs of form 21-526 based on incoming data, and the OAuth token of either the Veteran or their representative is used to represent electronic authorization of submitted documents. However, when a previous claim does not exist for a given Veteran, and a 21-526 is filed by anyone other than the Veteran, the API requires that PDF generation be disabled, and that a signed copy of the 21-526 is attached in addition to the required fields in the payload.

If an authorized representative is filing an original claim, rather than the Veteran (i.e. the OAuth token is not the Veteran’s), use the [PUT /forms/526/{id}](#operations-Disability-upload526Attachment) endpoint to upload a scanned PDF of the form signed in ink by the Veteran.

### 21-22 (Power of Attorney) and Digital Signatures

The endpoint accepts a JSON payload via POST. Full URL, including query parameters.

Once ID.me authorizes the Veteran or VSO via OpenID, this endpoint establishes PoA by requesting the:
- poaCode
- POA first name
- POA last name
- PDF documentation of VA 21-22 form or Base64 encoded image of the Veteran’s and POA’s signatures (for VSO request only)

If the requestor is a Veteran, OAUTH tokens are used to make the request and no PDF documentation or Base64 encoded images are required.

For VSO requests:

If no base64-encoded signatures are included with the request to API with poaCode, the PUT endpoint must be used which includes a PDF of the completed VA 21-22 with wet signature.

If a base64-encoded image is included with poaCode, this API will auto-populate the VA 21-22 form with signature images and directly submit as a PDF.

###  Optional Base64 Encoding

We allow Base64 encoding to convert binary data into text format for secure transmission. You will need to encode each _individual_ 526 form rather than the whole payload.  This differs from base64 encoding for the Benefits Intake API.

- There is a cURL example in the documentation for the [PUT /forms/526/{id}](#operations-Disability-upload526Attachment) endpoint.

-  If you would prefer to see a test payload, there is a [raw Base64 example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/master/modules/claims_api/spec/fixtures/base64pdf) you can decode and reverse engineer using the following header: `Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=WebKitFormBoundaryVfOwzCyvug0JmWYo` Important note: the binary file is encoded within this base64 payload as well.

### Mock Data in Test Environments
Mock data is used for all forms in the sandbox environment, and for 21-526 submissions in the Staging environment.  (Access to the Staging environment is only provided by special arrangement; the typical onboarding process goes directly from sandbox to the production API environment.)

### Flashes

Flashes are attributes that describe special circumstances which apply to a Veteran (for example, homelessness or terminal illness). Including all known Flashes as part of a Disability Compensation claim helps VA properly route and prioritize current and future claims for the Veteran and reduces claim processing time. A full list of supported Flashes is located [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/blob/master/modules/claims_api/config/schemas/526.json#L196-L368).

### Special Issues

Special Issues are attributes that describe special circumstances which apply to a particular claim. Including all known Special Issues as part of a Disability Compensation claim helps VA properly route and prioritize the claim for the Veteran and reduces claim processing time.  A full list of supported Special Issues is located [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/blob/master/modules/claims_api/config/schemas/526.json#L29-L187).
